Father, we take a moment to pause and to pray.
Father, we know that you're listening.
We know that you know everything about us.
And you are looking for that seed of faith.
You're looking for that way to build our faith and grow our faith.
God, you want our good.
You have our best in mind.
And sometimes we don't even know what that is.
So today, teach us how to pray.
Teach us how to ask.
We want to know you more.
We want to experience your presence in deeper and deeper ways.
And so just reveal yourself to us.
If we came in here with a burden, if we came in here super excited about some things that are happening in our lives, if we came here sort of numb, we don't know what to feel or what to think or how to believe.
For those of us who might be disoriented by what happened this last week, God, we pray you would bring peace and clarity and joy and faith to your people.
And we pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So 2000 years ago, the first disciples of Jesus, they looked at him and they had this request.
Lord, teach us how to pray.
And it's an important request because even 2000 years later, well, we need practice in praying.
And prayer is not necessarily a natural thing.
Sometimes we're like, well,
Where do my prayers go?
Do they go past the ceiling?
What do I say?
How do I say it?
What do I pray about?
It's all sort of mysterious.
And so Jesus is gonna teach his disciples how to pray by giving them a prayer.
And over the last couple of weeks, we've been talking about this acronym.
It's sort of a way we are practicing prayer.
It's P-R-A-Y.
So P we wanna pause.
We notice that Jesus constantly pausing early in the morning, late at night, in the middle of moments to set aside some time to pray and talk to his father.
And then last we talked about this idea of reflecting and rejoicing.
Who am I talking to?
And who am I to him?
And let me just stop and think about what prayer is.
And then today we're talking about asking, specifically asking God for things.
And then finally, next weekend we'll talk about what it means to yield.
Now for you, maybe you only thought prayer was about asking.
But if all we ever did was God, I need this, this and this.
And then we would be using God
not serving Him.
God is not a genie in a bottle to give you wishes for your life.
He's a father who wants a relationship with you.
And so last week we read the beginning of this Lord's Prayer that God is both Father and Holy.
And we should reflect on that as we even begin to pray because C.S.
Lewis would say this about prayer.
The prayer preceding all prayers is may it be the real me who speaks and may it be the real you that I speak to.
In other words, when you pray, you don't bring the person you want to be to God.
You bring the person you are to God because he already knows what's inside of you.
And you don't just pray to Mother Earth or the dead saints or the God who is up there, the big man upstairs.
You pray to God who has a name.
His name is Yahweh, the great I am.
So Jesus is gonna teach us this and teach the disciples this in this prayer.
So this is called the Lord's Prayer.
If your Bibles are in front of you, I'm gonna ask you to stand.
We are gonna read the Lord's Prayer together.
Probably the most familiar prayer in all the Bibles.
So stand.
And together, let us read the answer that Jesus gave to the request Lord teach us to pray.
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
And give us today our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.
Amen.
You can be seated.
It's such a simple prayer.
It's not very long.
And the requests are just so short and to the point and God, he's first revealed himself as father and also as holy.
He's father, he's intimately involved in the lives of those who have said, I want you to be my father.
I want you to adopt me.
So I put my faith and trust in you.
I've repented of my sins.
I believe the goodness of the gospel.
Not everyone can call God father.
Only those who have put trust in his name and the name of his son, Jesus.
But he's also holy, intimately involved.
He knows about all that you think and feel.
He knows all your anxieties and worries and hopes and dreams.
He knows everything about you.
And he's also running the world and the universe.
This God who is so big, but so intimately acquainted with the small in our lives, which means today,
3,000 people in this room will all be praying different prayers and God will know every detail about the prayer and why you're praying it and what he's gonna do in response to your prayer.
And that's pretty wild to think about who this God is.
God is the one who is overall.
So you look at these big ideas, God pray your kingdom would come, I pray for daily bread, I pray for forgiveness, and I pray against temptation.
Jesus rattles these things off like they're all the same.
But think about that.
What a big prayer is, God your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as this is in heaven.
I mean, God, think about all the things in our world that are broken right now.
God, I want to escape this world because it's crazy here and go to heaven.
No, I want heaven to break down to earth.
Everywhere there's darkness, injustice and chaos.
Everywhere greed and violence are winning.
And people who have power exploiting those who don't.
And you start to think like, what's going on in our world?
Just read the headlines.
God sees what's happening in Venezuela.
God sees what's happening in Iran.
3,000 people killed that we know of.
God sees what's happening in our own country, in Minneapolis.
God sees what's happening in your family.
God sees what's happening in you.
And none of those things are bigger or smaller to him.
He is over all of those things.
And so we are commanded, instructed to pray God,
Your kingdom come.
You can bring justice into that area.
You can bring light into the area, because sometimes you can feel super helpless when you read about all this stuff happening in the world, and everyone's got an opinion about it, and we're all waning on what we think, but you know, God sees in a way that we don't see.
God sees in a ways that broadcasters and journalists don't see.
He sees in a way that politicians don't see.
He sees the motive of the heart, and he sees how he's working these things for a purpose that we cannot see.
And so our prayer, as we pray for bread,
and forgiveness and fighting against temptation.
We pray for His kingdom to come in these beautiful, powerful ways.
And this weekend in particular, we celebrate a man, Dr. Martin Luther King, who is celebrated in this country as a person who prayed this prayer in such a serious way that he wanted to bring
the kingdom of God in places where it wasn't, where there was darkness, where there was injustice, where there was brokenness, where the powerful were exploiting the weak, and we celebrate the fact that the kingdom of God has come in beautiful ways in our nation, taking the brokenness and renovating it in beautiful ways, and we pray that happens again, because how many of you know our world still needs renovation?
How many of you know our country still needs renovation?
How many of you still know our church needs renovation, and your family needs renovation, and you need renovation?
God, your kingdom come in the world.
your kingdom come in our country.
God, your kingdom come in me.
What a simple prayer.
And then notice the provision.
God, today I pray for bread.
Now, if your fridge is full and you have money in the bank, it's sort of hard for you to understand that, but in the first century where people lived day to day, it was this sense of dependence.
So we never want to grow or take for granted the idea that there's always bread.
God's the one who feeds us every single day.
He says, I want you to ask me for bread every day.
for your body, but I also want you to pray for forgiveness because one of the hardest things that can happen in your life is someone hurts you, someone betrays, someone uses or manipulates you and you keep this in your heart.
And Jesus is like this model of prayer.
God just doesn't care about your body, he cares about your soul, the person you become, not filled with resentment or bitterness or brokenness, but free to forgive other people every day as God, your Father, has forgiven you.
And then a prayer.
about temptation.
You might be in a season where you haven't been tempted, or in the past I haven't been tempted for a long time.
And now new temptations are coming with new seasons.
You're like, man, I didn't used to struggle with that, but now I'm struggling with this.
And I don't know what to do with that.
Listen, your whole life, there will be different temptations you will struggle.
And so you'll never again outgrow your need for God's help when temptation comes.
God, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from the evil one.
these prayers that are very simply lined out by Jesus.
Notice, nothing's too big or nothing's too small to God.
In fact, nothing is big or small to God.
How much harder is it for God to heal your cancer than to heal your headache?
How much more difficult is it for God to fix what's happening in some revolution in Iran or to help bring peace to a broken marriage or family?
There's nothing big or small to God.
It's all the same to him.
So we can pray for things that seem big or seem small with the same sense of expectancy.
And that's part of what the Lord's prayer teaches us.
And if you're new to prayer, if you're like, I'm new at praying, I don't know exactly what to say.
This model of these simple ideas will help frame you prayer as you practice.
Because we've been talking about practice.
Everyone knows they should pray
But how do I pray?
When do I pray?
And so we practice that thing we do over and over, which is a verb, until that practice becomes a noun, a habit in our life that helps ground us.
And so I want you to think about some categories of prayer.
If you think about every prayer that's ever been prayed to God the Father, they fall in three categories.
Here are the categories of prayer.
First it's help, then it's thanks,
And then it's wow.
Every prayer that's in the Bible and every prayer you will ever pray will fall in one of the three categories.
Help.
Thanks.
Wow.
And Jesus says you're not heard because of your many words.
No, in fact, it's these short prayers in the Bible that more than often are the ones that get answered.
Think about these short prayers in the Bible.
Peter, sinking in the water.
Lord, save me.
Three words.
A woman whose child is demon possessed.
Lord, help me.
Disciples who are challenged to forgive people who hurt them.
Lord, increase our faith.
A father who sees his son in turmoil and thinks Jesus can believe him, but has a lot of doubt.
Lord, help my unbelief.
A sinner in the temple, a tax collector, beating his chest.
Lord, have mercy on me.
A sinner.
These prayers are like three, four, five, six words.
And listen, Jesus answered every single one of those prayers.
And so let's not complicate this communication with God when we ask, Martin Luther, one of the greatest thinkers of the Christian faith wrote this, the fewer the words, the better the prayer.
This man wrote volumes of books on theology and doctrine.
And yet he would say, when you pray, the less words you use, the better the prayer.
And so we see this in the early church.
In the early church, the first followers of Jesus that learned this prayer, their prayers were short and sweet.
And they prayed about everything.
If they were in need of food, they would pray for bread.
If they were being persecuted, they prayed for safety.
If they needed help to heal the sick or raise the dead, they prayed those simple prayers in the name of Jesus.
And they asked God and they banged on heaven's door and God showed up.
In fact, there's this moment in Acts chapter 12 where persecution is
breaking out against the church, and Peter and James, two of the main disciples of Jesus are arrested.
James is executed by Herod, and Peter's being held in a cell guarded by four squads of soldiers, and he's about to be brought up for public trial and execution after Passover.
Herod's gonna make an example of these Christians, and the Christians are helpless.
They don't have swords, they're not gonna battle, they don't control the army.
All they can do is pray.
And so Acts chapter 12 begins with a sort of ominous scene.
Hey, it's bad.
It's really bad.
The king in power has killed James, the brother of John.
He's arrested Peter.
He's going to be put up on public trial.
Peter is locked up in the depth of this prison and there's nothing anybody can do.
And then this verse, like in the middle of that narrative.
So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to God for him.
Now it seems like such a little thing
with all of the power brokers and moving all the things around.
But the church was praying.
And as the church was praying, angel came, the guards fell asleep, the chains fell off.
Peter, he walked through all the doors until he was out into the street.
And then he went and knocked on the door where the prayer meeting was.
And the people who were praying didn't even believe it was him.
I mean, that crazy, right?
If you ever pray something crazy, then it happens and you're freaked out by it.
Because you're like, I didn't really expect that.
Where do your prayers go?
When you pray these prayers, where do they go?
They just hit the ceiling and bounce back.
The book of Revelation describes in heaven, past all of the worshiping angels and bowing elders, these bowls of incense that are at the very center of heaven right before the throne of God.
What you pray today in this place will make it to the very center of heaven.
That's what happened in Acts chapter 12, and that's what's gonna happen today as we practice.
We do not wanna be the people
who do not have because we do not ask.
And that sort of scares me to think God's like, I was just waiting Doug to give this to you, but you never asked me.
So I'm still waiting.
So we're gonna practice praying and we're gonna pray through the Lord's prayer, but we're gonna make it very personal.
So I'm gonna ask you to close your eyes and just, you're in the presence of God.
We're gonna bring our real self to the real God and we're gonna pray some prayers.
So just ask yourself this question.
Where do I need provision in my life?
The need for food or money for rent or money for college or health for my body from an injury or sickness.
Where do I need God's provision?
And then just ask him, whatever comes to mind, just ask him.
He's listening to you right now.
Next question, who do I need to forgive?
Think of a person who's hurt you, betrayed you, made and broke and promises to you.
And when their mind comes up, just ask God for the strength and grace to forgive them.
Next question, what temptations am I facing?
The temptations that are pressing on you, you're battling against.
And then just ask God for the strength to do what is right.
Ask yourself, what burdens am I carrying today?
The burdens for others, the burdens for dreams that still feel unfulfilled.
The last question, where does the world need to see the kingdom of God come?
the things where you see brokenness in the world.
Just take a moment and pray for whatever God brings to mind in our world, in our nation, in your life, that His kingdom would come and His will would be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Amen.
Now what did we just do?
In three minutes, we just practiced asking.
We just said the Lord said, what would happen if every day you took three minutes and you just went through the condition of the world and our chance to pray, our physical, emotional and spiritual needs and the boldness to ask.
And so we're talking about this practice of asking and if you didn't get it already, the first big idea is pray about everything.
There's nothing that you should just leave behind, nothing too big, nothing too small.
Jesus is inviting us to pray about everything in your life.
And the second thing he's gonna teach us in this prayer is we ask with confidence.
We don't ask like God's too busy, or we don't ask like God doesn't care.
Jesus says, you know, your Father in heaven knows what you're gonna pray before you pray it, which makes me go, then why?
Why does he want me to pray?
It's because he wants a relationship with you.
Jesus describes God as a father waiting for you to make requests.
If you ask for bread, if you ask for an egg, if you ask for food, he wants to give you good things when you ask.
And I saw this in this conversation I had with the leader in our city this week.
I'm in this office and I'm having this important meeting, this important conversation.
We're talking about very important things.
And like all of a sudden, past the crowd that's waiting, past security, three people barge in the office,
His three kids, they jump on his lap.
They say, hey daddy, they give him a hug.
And then his little daughter says, can I have a piece of candy, daddy?
And he's like, sure you can have a piece of candy.
And like the conversation we were having just ended.
It was like the kids were everywhere, grabbing candy, smiling, laughing to his face.
His countenance was like shining on his kids.
And it was frankly, awesome.
See sometimes when we pray,
I got so busy trying to figure out what to do in Ukraine to disaster there.
And what's happening in Greenland?
I don't even know.
I don't know what's going to happen.
I mean, the hurricanes need help to win tomorrow.
I mean, I don't know.
I mean, these are important things, right?
I mean, these are important things.
God doesn't care that my son lost his shoe or I'm in traffic and I can't figure out where Siri's taking me.
No, no, no.
God can't.
wait to hear from you about whatever you're going through.
And Jesus invites us to ask with that sense of confidence.
He wants a relationship with you.
And so we have these scriptures that remind us, Hebrews 4.16.
How do we pray?
Let us then approach God's throne of grace with confidence so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need.
God is not too busy and he doesn't want us to approach him like, oh,
Sorry to bother you.
No, no, run into the middle of heaven with boldness and confidence.
My father wants to talk to me.
He wants me to bring his request.
So I'm going to ask with that sense of confidence, because of what Jesus did when he died on the cross, when he tore the veil that separated man and God.
It's like, come on in.
Heaven is open to all who would repent and believe the good news of the gospel.
God is waiting to hear from you.
And so as the people of God, we need to think through that like, wait, okay, so I'm invited to pray about everything.
I'm invited to ask confidently, but I'm not sure if I'm really good at praying.
Well, James says this about that.
He says, the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.
And then he explains, Elijah was a human being, even as we are, he prayed earnestly that it would not rain and it did not rain in the land for three and a half years.
And again, he prayed and the heavens gave rain and the earth produced its crops.
He says, the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.
So here's the first question.
Does anyone here feel like you're a righteous person?
None of us probably feel righteous because we know ourselves.
We know what we think.
We know what we did yesterday.
We know we try to do what's right and we sort of get in our own way.
But the reality is Elijah, the person you're talking about, he went through these bouts of like great faith and great power and then like depression, fear, anxiety and self-pity and even the most righteous of the saints weren't really righteous in that sense.
But here's the beautiful thing.
You are not righteous because of your good works.
You're righteous because of Jesus and what he did for you on the cross of Calvary, right?
The Bible says when you put your faith and trust in Jesus, he exchanges your garments of
and sin and shame, and he puts over you a cloak of his own righteousness.
So when you pray to God as a Christian, you stand before God, your father as righteous as Jesus.
Which means when you make a request, God is listening.
If you're a Christian, your prayers in Christ are powerful and effective.
Elijah made this prayer.
bold prayer and didn't rain for three and a half years, then you pray to get it to rain, and God's talking about the power, because again, making it rain or making it home safe are all the same to God.
Solving the world problems or helping you with your back issue are all the same to God.
And so I wanna share with you just a moment about how we pray bold and audacious prayers.
2 Kings chapter 13, I'll give you the background.
Elijah, after him came another prophet called Elisha, and Elisha did many miracles in Israel, and he's gonna, in this moment, pray for a king.
It's one of the last things he does before he dies.
So imagine a king, Jehoash, who doesn't follow God, he's evil, and a prophet who's done great things for God, and this king needs this prophet for a miracle.
You know, there are times that kings and people in power that don't know God, wanna use God's people, or God's
presence or God's power to make it go okay for them.
A good thing that doesn't happen today, but I'm just saying that's, you know, it's a thing.
How do I use God for my purposes?
So he wants to win a war against a nation called Aram.
He's not interested in following God, but he needs God's help.
So he goes to this old prophet, Elisha.
And here's the conversation.
Second Kings 13, 15.
Elisha said, get a bow and some arrows, and the king did so.
Take the bow in your hands.
And he said to the king of Israel, when he had taken it, Elisha put his hands on the king's hands, opened the east window, he said, and he opened it.
Now shoot, Elisha said, and he shot.
The Lord's arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Aaron, Elisha declared, you will completely destroy the Arameans at Athec.
Then he said, take the arrows, and the king took them.
And Elisha told him, strike the ground.
And he struck it three times and stopped.
And the man of God was angry with him and said, you should have struck the ground five or six times
Then you would have defeated Aram and completely destroyed it, but now you will only defeat it three times.
What's happening here?
You've got an old prophet and you have a king who doesn't honor, serve or fear God.
The king needs the prophet to give him a word.
So when he goes in the battle, he can get a blessing and he can win the battle against Aram, this arch enemy of Israel that for decades has oppressed them and defeated them.
So you think as the king, you want to take this moment seriously.
And there's this beautiful moment where
Elisha, this old man takes the king's hands and helps him draw the bow and shoots the arrow.
And he says that arrow is like a symbol of victory.
Now take the rest of the arrows and strike the ground and the king.
And I'm not sure if it was unenthusiastic.
I'm not sure it was the attitude behind how we struck them or the fact that he only struck them three times, but something's going on in that king.
And Elisha is like, are you kidding me?
You spent your entire life trying to figure out how you're gonna get victory over your ally.
God just gave you a word and now you're just gonna strike it unenthusiastically.
There's no sense of faith or boldness or audacity or trust in God.
It's kind of like, I'm just gonna do what the prophet tells me to get from God what I want.
This is like a transaction.
And so Elisha says, man, even in your response to the prayer, even in your response to God, you just like, bleh.
He said, if you would have struck the ground,
five or six times.
You would have struck it like you meant it.
If you would have prayed with me via audacious prayer that this small nation could defeat this greater nation, you would have experienced a greater miracle.
And it's this idea of not just asking with confidence, but with a sense of boldness, even audacity.
So here's the question.
When was the last time you prayed on audacious prayer?
Like a crazy prayer?
It comes to mind this missionary named Hudson Taylor who had a heart to bring the gospel to China.
One day in prayer, he said, God, give me China.
All right, that's crazy.
Millions of people that could come to know Jesus, no, God, give me China.
And just kept praying, God, give me China, give me the nation.
And hundreds of thousands of people heard and received the gospel because one man prayed a crazy prayer, God, give me China.
What would happen if you prayed on a day to pray?
Maybe you're a student here, middle school, high school student, you're like, God,
Give me Taravella High School.
Give me Boca High School.
Give me South Plantation High School.
I want the gospel to go there.
I want to help with first priority.
I want to begin to get students and teachers together.
I want the gospel to spread through this school.
What if you prayed over your workplace?
God, this workplace belongs to you.
I want everyone here to know and hear and experience the gospel.
That might sound crazy to you, but there's something about God that loves audacious prayers.
As a church, all last year we kept praying, God, do it again.
You save tens of thousands of people, do it again, do it again, do it again.
We are invited to pray these kinds of prayers, not small, little, average prayers, safe prayers.
No, prayers that maybe scare us because prayer releases power.
And Ephesians 6 talks about the fact that prayer and the Word of God are offensive weapons in our battle against darkness.
Here's how the Bible describes prayer in Ephesians 6.
And pray in the spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests.
With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord's people.
Pray also for me that whenever I speak, words may be given to me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel.
In all our repertoire that we have to fight spiritual battles, God's word,
and prayer are offensive weapons to go into places of darkness and pray over them, to pray over people who are bound by addiction, to pray over people who are suffering from depression, to pray that God would allow His kingdom to come and His will to be done on earth as it is in heaven.
And we want to practice this type of prayer.
And so we're going to practice it right now because when hundreds of people pray in the same space, God releases power.
We see it all through the Bible.
And so through this series, we've been asking you for prayer cards and prayer requests.
And you guys have been turning in, I mean, hundreds and hundreds of prayer requests.
And we've been praying over these prayer requests that you've been given.
You were given one today, we're gonna ask you to fill it out and need to drop it in the bucket out there or exchange it with someone here because these prayers, they change things.
And we have this online prayer wall.
I'm just gonna show you a glimpse of it where you can post a prayer anytime of the night or day.
And hundreds of people are seen and praying over these prayer requests.
And if you're one of those people like, I need prayer, I need to break through in this area of my life and then post one.
And if you can't sleep at two o'clock in the morning, instead of doom scrolling on your phone, go there and start to pray for people in your church and watch God work as we offensively say, hey, where the enemy wants to take ground and kill and steal.
and destroy, we're gonna fight and intercede and pray and watch God work on our path because God responds to the prayers of His people.
Does anyone know what I'm talking about?
Okay.
So we're gonna practice.
We're gonna practice.
Here's a couple just prayer cards.
And I need to pray for a job from a husband that fulfills him and then earns enough money for our family.
I can't tell you how many cards we got like this.
God, I'm not in a job where I can earn enough money to pay my bills or provide for my family.
I'm not in a job where I'm fulfilling my calling.
I don't have yet the degree.
I need to go to college and get the degree.
I don't know what degree to get.
I'm having this issue at work with my boss, with the co-work, and it's just draining the life out of me.
And so we're gonna pray for this woman and her husband, but I know that they represent probably hundreds of people in this room.
and those watching the line.
So I'm just gonna say, if you need prayer for this, I'm gonna ask you to stand up.
You need a better job.
You need a job that's more in line with your calling.
You need a work conflict to be resolved.
Listen, it's gonna take courage to stand up in front of all these people, but I can promise you, hundreds of people in this room have that.
And as you stand in faith, you're saying, I want heaven to hear.
I don't want, I don't wanna be silent while heaven is listening because God wants to do something
in your work and in your vocation.
And he's about to answer some prayers in this room and do some miracles that are gonna, again, amaze you.
And so for all those who've stood, let's just take this time and pray.
Father, I pray for every man and woman and young person who's standing.
God, you see them, you know them, you know why you created them, you know the gifts that are in them, you know the calling that you placed in them, you know that longing to see those things line up.
God, you know the burden that many
breadwinners in this house feel to provide not just food for themselves, but for their family and with expenses growing and gotta just pray for the right job.
I pray for the right amount of income, the raises that are needed, the promotions that are needed.
I pray God for the conflict that's happened at work.
I pray God that there would be a humility and these many women who stand that they wouldn't try to fight, but they would yield and trust you to open doors that only you can open and shut doors that only you can shut and that you would give them
this great sense of confidence that you are their father, and you are listening to their prayer, and that as we pray and surround them, God, that you would do more than we could ask or imagine in this simple prayer, and we pray this in Jesus' name, amen.
Now, I want us just to clap because God is gonna show off, God's gonna show off in,
in some of your lives and you're gonna come back and you're gonna share with me.
See, every week, at the close of our service, we open a prayer altar and we pray for all sorts of things.
We pray for broken marriages and prodigals and people who are sick and people who need jobs.
And every week, people come back and say, Pastor, six months ago you prayed for me, three months ago you prayed for me.
And not just people, all the prayer counselors.
And so this is a place where God answers prayer.
And we don't wanna live with that, oh, I don't have because I don't ask, or I don't believe God still answers prayer.
No, God's teaching us.
that he is attentive to the cry of his kids.
Here's another prayer request that we got.
Lord, help me in this moment of despair.
I'm pregnant and facing depression.
Lord, help me to see the beauty of life again.
I'm lost.
Now, I know that you don't have to be pregnant and wondering to struggle with depression or anxiety or feeling lost, but I know that hundreds of people walked in here today feeling that sense of,
of dread where the negative is so much bigger than the positive where cynicism and skepticism and despair sort of creep into your soul.
Maybe you're struggling with insomnia or just that negative emotions have so much weight in your life.
And so I'm just gonna ask you just to boldly stand and say, I want you to take this off of me and I want you to do a work inside my heart that only you could do because God can deliver you and God can heal and shape your heart and mind.
And so for those of you who are bold enough to say, hey, that's me,
And I need God's presence.
I feel lost.
I feel numb.
I feel broken.
I just want to pray.
Again, don't worry what other people think.
Don't worry about who's looking.
All of us go through these moments of life.
It is what it means to be human and honest.
We are bringing our real self to the real God.
And as you stand in faith, he sees.
and he wants to act on your behalf.
Father, I thank you for the courage and boldness to stand.
I pray, Father, for every man and woman and young person who stands in God, I need your deliverance, your freedom, your grace in this area of depression and anxiety and insomnia and just negativity.
God, I pray that you would renew minds, that you would transform hearts, that the power of your Holy Spirit would be greater than that voice in their head and that God, even if their external circumstances don't change, you would give them the strength on the inside by the power of your spirit.
And we pray this and thank you in advance in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Can we thank God for the way he's answering prayers again all around this room?
Here's another request and this request echoes again hundreds of requests that we've gotten.
Pray for my son that he would have a renewed faith in Jesus and pray for reconciliation for my family.
The prayer of a mom and a dad who's
is maybe far away from God and far away from them.
And I know so many people walk in here and there's some broken relationships in your family.
There's some people you're praying for that God hasn't answered that prayer yet.
And you don't know what to do with that.
And here's the thing, if there's someone you're praying for right now, there's a broken relationship you only see break inside.
A person you want to be saved.
A marriage that you need to find restoration.
Any of those broken relationships, I'm gonna ask you to stand right now.
We're just gonna pray a prayer of faith.
Again, God is watching, God sees, God knows, we bring our real self to Him and we ask Him to do a miracle because He's the only one that can affect the human heart.
And so Father, we come in Jesus' name and we ask where there is brokenness within families, bring reconciliation.
Where there is conflict and marriages or struggling maybe even on life support, bring life out of death, bring resurrection.
for marriages and families that struggle.
God, we pray for prodigals.
We pray for those that we love that don't know you.
God, we pray that you would open their eyes.
You'd bring circumstance around their life to draw them to you in a way that changes everything.
God, we don't know when you're gonna do this or how you're gonna do this, but we ask that you would do this.
This is our prayer.
As kids, cry out to our father.
Save our family and friends.
Restore families, restore marriages, restore broken relationships.
Help us to forgive and receive forgiveness
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Once again, can we clap and thank God for the way that He's at work?
And so the Lord's prayer is teaching us, pray about everything and ask with confidence.
But you're like, okay, so I've done that for a long time.
I mean, I got someone on my prayer list and they've been there for like 20 years.
So either they're irredeemable or I don't know how to pray.
I don't know.
Now listen.
Listen to the words of Jesus.
This is the third idea about asking.
Keep asking.
It's simple.
I mean, when Jesus follows up his Lord's prayer, he says this, asking it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be open to you.
Now, it looks like ask and seek and knock are all just like do it once.
But if you look in the tense of the Greek, it is the imperative imperfect tense, which means ask and keep on asking.
Knock and keep on knocking, seek and keep on seeking.
It's a continuous process.
We are invited into this process of continuing to pray, even when God hasn't answered yet.
In fact, Jesus and Luke 18 would tell his disciples about what happens when you don't get what you ask for right away.
Luke 18, one, Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them they should always pray and not give up.
And then Jesus tells this crazy story about this widow
who's completely helpless and she's asking for justice.
And there's a judge who can grant her what she needs, but this judge doesn't care about justice and doesn't care about her.
He only cares about himself.
And then he describes this widow as she would go to his house and knock on the door, wake him up in the middle of the night, bug him every day.
And he got so annoyed that even though he didn't fear God or care about justice or care about her, he gave her what she asked for because he was getting nagged to death.
And Jesus said, you should do that to my father.
You should bang on heaven's door until the angels get so annoyed, they say, God, can you do something about that?
Now what is that?
What is that?
There's something about persistent, tenacious, audacious prayers that attract you to the heart.
of God where he's no longer a vending machine or a genie that gives you what you wish for and you go along your way.
He's not interested in being a transactional God.
He wants to be your father.
And in this wrestling of unanswered prayer and keep on asking, he does some of his best work.
So I think of Jacob.
Jacob, one of the worst human beings the Bible describes manipulative, deceitful, prideful, arrogant, conniving all the things
And he comes to a point in his life where now all that stuff comes back and he's about to face his brother and his brother's about to kill him, at least he thinks so.
And so he wrestles with God all night long.
And after the wrestling match, there's a tie, no one's won.
God touches his hip socket and it dislocates.
And now he's in excruciating pain, but he won't let go of God.
He's literally wrestling with God and he says, I will not let go of you until you bless me.
And God loved that.
In fact, it was in that moment where God was like, finally, you were so desperate.
You were so desperate for my presence, so desperate for my blessing, so desperate for me that you realize now it's not about you.
And so I'm gonna give you a new name.
You were called Jacob the deceiver, the manipulator, the conniver, but now I'm gonna call you Israel, a person who is governed by God.
God loves when we wrestle in prayer, when we keep on asking and don't give up.
So I want you to think about maybe a list of people that you pray for.
And how long have people been on that list?
Sometimes we're like, oh, that person was on my list for three years, they didn't change.
Forget them.
Someone tell you a story to help you persist in prayer for the people that you know that need Jesus.
D.L.
Moody, one of the most well-known evangelists of our age.
He had a list of 100 people on a prayer list.
He would pray over every day.
100 people who didn't know Jesus.
And at the time of his death, 96 of those men and women came to know Jesus in part because of his persistent prayer for them.
He kept on asking.
And listen, at his funeral, the other four came and gave their life to Jesus.
So all hundred.
I mean, it's an amazing story of the faithfulness and power of prayer.
So think of all the people on your prayer list.
What's the longest amount of time you've been praying for that one person?
Someone told me between services, hey, they had someone on their list of grants on 37 years they prayed.
And 37 years of prayer.
And now he has a bright life for Jesus.
Do not stop praying for the people in your life.
Because God wants to do something beautiful.
First John chapter five, this is the confidence we have in approaching God that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask for.
There is that caveat.
We don't ask for anything we want and we get it.
We ask according to God's will.
And part of the no or the not yet shapes our heart to want the things that God wants.
And part of the no and the waiting allows God to do his good work in a way that we don't understand in a way that would amaze us.
And I want to just tell you one of the ways that that was true for Suzanne and I. I want to tell you about a prayer that we prayed 28 years ago.
So 28 years ago, we experienced
and the death of our firstborn son, Jordan.
And after that death, which was so disorienting for us, my wife experienced a miscarriage.
And then the emptiness of her home, we experienced a failed adoption.
And I don't know if you've ever been through a season of life where things keep getting worse and worse and worse, and you're just waiting for it, but the next thing.
And it was the first time in my life that I watched my wife go into a depression where I couldn't help her.
I'm a guy who likes to fix problems.
And when things go wrong, like just tell me what to do, give me the seven things to do, and I'm going to fix it.
But you can't just fix the depression of someone that you love.
And so there were just moments we'd sit in silence because I don't know what to say.
And she would say like, I feel this heavy cloak of despair over me.
And at this point in our life, our prayers got really simple.
I read this verse in Isaiah that when Messiah would come, he would take our cloak of despair and he would turn it into a garment of praise.
And so I just started to pray, God take this cloak of despair over our lives and turn it into a garment of praise.
It was just a simple sentence, take this cloak of despair and turn it into a garment of praise.
I didn't know what else to say, really short prayers.
And I would pray that nothing would happen.
The next day nothing would happen.
The next week nothing would happen.
The next month nothing would happen.
It didn't get any better.
But I think we knew in the deepest part of our heart, just keep on praying and keep on asking, what's gonna happen with our family?
The doctors say we can't have any more kids and we don't know what our family, we look at, we desire our family so bad.
So there's the ache and the loss of a son who's gone, the failure of another pregnancy and another adoption, just like wondering like what is going on?
Like one of our greatest desires is just not being fulfilled by God.
And five months later, we get a phone call about a little baby.
who's just born, who needs an adoptive home, his name is Jackson.
And we brought Jackson home and God took that cloak of despair and turned it into a garment phrase.
And I was thinking about how God brought us each of our next sons and our family.
And I was thinking about that because this week yesterday, my wife and I found out that we're gonna be grandparents, right?
So, and,
that we're gonna have a little baby girl which sort of scares me because the Southerners know how to do boys.
We have no idea what to do with girls.
But I thought back to that 28 year old prayer that God is still answering that prayer from 28 years ago in the legacy of our kids and grandkids.
We didn't know what was gonna happen with our family.
We didn't know what was gonna happen with us.
And God was busy doing something that was beyond we can imagine.
I just had to smile yesterday at the goodness of God.
When it seemed like he wasn't working, he was working all of those things out.
And the same thing is true for you.
See, there's something about a testimony of answered prayer that gives us faith and gives us courage.
We have so many of these prayer cards that were filled out and we have buckets of responses that people said, hey, God already answered that prayer.
And so I just wanna give you just a sense of confidence that prayer is not just something you do when you're desperate or something you do when you don't know what to do or just something you do because you're the Christian.
Now it's something that God is,
Intimately involved with prayer releases, power, God hears the prayers of His people, God acts on behalf of our prayers.
And so I'm gonna show you just a few, Sandra and Juan Alegre.
She had this story over the past year, 10, 12 years ago, had this desire to move to Peru and plant a church.
And a couple of years into that church, plan to start an orphanage with no money and no land and no really good plan.
And this is a crazy prayer.
God, give us a church, bring the gospel to the city and help us to plant an orphanage.
By the grace of God, donors would step up here and there.
We became part of the birthday gift for Jesus.
And we were part of that prayer that helped take the refuge of hope and their church to the next level as we together collectively raised $257,000 that we sent to them now to help them to build this orphanage and to rebuild this church and to answer the prayers of so many kids who have been through such horrific circumstances.
And I just think it's so cool to be the answer to a decade old prayer.
And then we collectively get to be a part of it.
It's so cool to think about all the prayers for those kids in such vulnerable situations where those Christian social workers and leaders are like, God, give this child a home.
And then it's provided by people that are thousands of miles away.
This is what God loves to do.
We have some friends, Todd and Lisa Stevenson.
We've known them for years.
They're part of our church.
They're leaders here.
And three years ago, they walked to the doctor's office and the doctor said, you have an aggressive form of liver cancer.
And you're gonna search the country for a treatment, but there is no treatment.
You're gonna die from this and there's nothing we can do to help you.
And you can imagine, like, wait, what?
This young couple, they're raising teenagers and college students and they're full of life and now she's just gonna die and there's nothing you can do?
And so they gathered together their friends and their family.
186 of us were on a WhatsApp prayer
change.
Every time there was a doctor's appointment, we prayed.
Every time there was a medical emergency, we prayed.
Every time they looked for alternative treatments, we prayed.
And two years ago today, we met over in that room and we
prayed a crazy prayer.
We anointed her with oil.
We prayed a prayer of faith.
We said there's nothing impossible with God and God out of that place.
Drew out a person who donated his own liver for her and today she is cancer-free and thriving and healthy by God's grace.
God answers prayer.
And the coolest thing is, I wish you could be in the river.
Last night that same group that gathered two years ago went back to that same room and we just said, God, we just want to say thank you for the miracle you did two years ago in this room.
And because we know you wanna do it again in our lives.
This is our God.
And so we pray about everything.
And we ask with this sense of confidence.
And we keep on asking and keep on praying and keep on knocking and we bang on heaven's door until everyone gets annoyed.
And God shows up in a powerful way.
There are people in this room that struggle with addiction and bondage.
We've heard testimonies of a woman named Cassie who comes to give her life to Christ and instantly in a moment, freed of drug and alcohol addiction, just like that.
We also hear of stories of a woman named Dominica who people prayed for and fasted for for eight months.
There's a woman named Janet who talked to her on the phone.
She's high on the phone saying she needs help.
And Janet's like, I'm just gonna pray and fast for this girl.
She thinks she'll pray a week or two.
She prayed eight months, prayed and fasted.
She was so hungry, trust me.
I mean, it was one of those things.
She gave all the food she loved to eat.
And it was in that intercession that God responded.
Now, Dominica isn't just drug and alcohol free.
She's leading the women of Calvary House in their own redemption journey.
And this is what God loves to do.
It's God showing off.
And so I just want to remind you again on Tuesday, we're gonna come here and it's gonna be like Ask Week.
You know how the shark week on discovery?
All right, it's asking.
We're gonna pray over marriages, over prodigals.
We're gonna pray for revival.
We're gonna pray for healing.
We're gonna pray for breaking bonds of addiction and brokenness in the lives of ourselves and our friends.
I'm asking you, come out on Tuesday.
Just experience a war room where people pray in an offensive way that God would bring His kingdom in those areas of darkness.
But we're gonna practice before we get to Tuesday.
We're gonna practice right now.
So I'm gonna ask you to stand up.
Now,
Here's what I want you to do.
I want you to think of one thing you need prayer for.
And I want you to turn to one or two people around and say, I need you to pray for me.
I need a job.
I need you to pray for me.
I need healing because I injured myself.
I need boldness to share my faith.
I need help in this situation.
I don't want you to talk for 20 minutes about the situation.
My name is, here's what I need you to pray for me about.
And then you pray for them and they pray for you.
Listen, remember, the simpler the prayer, the shorter the prayer, the fewer words.
the more effective, the more powerful the prayer is.
It doesn't have to be a long, long prayer, but God is listening right now to all of his kids.
And this is called a house of prayer.
And so maybe it's uncomfortable for you to pray.
So if all you know to say is God help John get a job, that's all you say.
God listens to that prayer and he responds to the faith of that prayer.
And so right now turn to the person, two or three around you, and let's just take a moment.
You pray for them, they pray for you.
Let God hear our prayers.
our Father in heaven, we thank you that right now our prayers are entering the very center of heaven.
And we do not want to people, be the people who don't have, because we don't ask.
So we ask in confidence and in boldness and we're gonna keep on asking and we're gonna keep on praying whether we think it's big or small, that you would work and act on behalf of your children.
Thank you for being attentive to our prayers.
And we pray this together.
in the name of Jesus, your son.
Amen.
Can we give God thanks and praise for the prayers that He was busy answering in this place?
Because I know that there are going to be lives that are different today because of what we pray.
So I want to tell you about one prayer that God will always answer immediately.
It's really the only one I know.
The only prayer that God promises.
The second you pray it, I will answer it.
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Think about that promise.
The greatest miracle of your life is not the healing of your body or the providing of a job.
It's the forgiveness of your sins and the adoption of God over your life where he becomes your father.
Because right now, if you are not a Christian, if you've not given your life to Jesus, God is God, but he's not your father.
The only way he becomes your father is if you ask him to adopt you.
The way you receive the adoption of God, the way you receive the forgiveness of sin is simply by saying, God, I'm a sinner.
I need to save you.
I need you to forgive my sins.
I accept the death of your son, Jesus, in my place, the pain of my debt.
And I want to give my life now to live for you and follow you.
So fill me with your spirit as I make my confession.
I no longer run my life.
I invite you to run my life.
I surrender my will to you.
This is called a prayer of confession.
And if you've never gotten to the point of your life where you made that prayer of confession or it seems like a distant memory from something you did as a kid and it's been so long that you've said, God, I'm ready.
I want to be all in for you.
then we want to provide you that opportunity.
You're already standing.
So we're going to just play a song.
We're going to actually just slide into the aisle and come forward to this platform.
And we're going to pray a simple prayer of faith.
It will be the most powerful prayer over your life that you will ever experience.
It'll be the most powerful prayer that ever comes out of your mouth your entire life because the Bible says, by your confession, you will be saved.
And so if you know that to you right now,
I'm gonna ask you, slide into the aisle and walk this way and we will celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
We've been praying for you, come this way and we will celebrate.
Come on, come on.
we are so excited for the journey that you're about to take with Jesus.
We applaud because we know what that felt like to get to that moment like I don't know what else to do but I'm gonna I'm gonna give this a shot.
Jesus will not fail you.
Every promise he makes for you he keeps.
And so as you make this confession you're gonna
And every sin you've ever committed is going to be washed away and wiped away.
Your name is going to be written in a book called the book of life and heaven.
And if your name is in the book of life and heaven, you go to heaven when you die.
It means death has no power over you and sin has no power over you.
And you stand before God today righteous, forgiven and free.
And it is our honor to lead you in a prayer that someone led us and that helped us.
to be in this moment.
And I just want to take one more moment for the procrastinators that are sitting in the middle and you're thinking it's too late and I'll do this later.
Listen, if you know right now that you need forgiveness and freedom, he's the only way you're going to find that.
He is the only way you're going to feel that void that you feel.
And so even if there's just one more person just sliding out, we're not going to sing another song.
Which one to wait for you?
He loves you.
He wants to draw you into his grace.
Come on.
Come on, church.
Let's celebrate.
Come on.
Wherever you are, it's not too late.
You have a few more moments.
Just step into the aisle.
Freedom is this way.
Welcome.
So I'm going to lead you in a very simple prayer to God.
He knows your mind.
He knows your heart.
It's not about the perfect words.
It's about a heart and mind that's ready.
to make your confession.
So repeat these words out loud to God.
Say this, Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen guys, congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
So you just made the most important decision of your life.
I'm going to ask you for five more minutes to follow me and our team over to those open doors.
We're going to give you a Bible as a gift.
Have a quick conversation.
You'll be back with your friends in a moment.
So church, can we give them a hand as they go this way?
And let us sing one more song of praise as we go to our good father who is worthy of our praise.
Sing this together one more time and remind our hearts that he is perfect in all of his ways.
Join with me.
Before you go, if you're in need of prayer, please come forward.
Our prayer team's gonna be right up here up front to pray with you.
We wanna remind you, you are invited back on Tuesday night at 6.30 here in the sanctuary for our night of prayer.
We are going to practice asking, banging on Heaven's door together.
We hope you have a wonderful rest of your Sunday.
Enjoy some rest and time with family and friends.
We'll see you again next week.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.